                       _           _      ___ _ _                        [WT04]
                      | |   ___ __| |_   / __(_) |_ _  _
----\ /-----\ /-----\ | |__/ _ (_-<  _| | (__| |  _| || | /-----\ /-----\ /----
----/ \-----/ \-----/ |____\___/__/\__|  \___|_|\__|\_, | \-----/ \-----/ \----
                                                    |__/

   __              _____           __  _____          ______     __
  / /  [LV14]     / __(_)__  ___ _/ / / ___/__  ___  / _/ (_)___/ /_
 / /__           / _// / _ \/ _ `/ / / /__/ _ \/ _ \/ _/ / / __/ __/
/____/evel 14 - /_/ /_/_//_/\_,_/_/  \___/\___/_//_/_//_/_/\__/\__/

 /-----------------\
|  Kills     -   9  |
|  Supplies  -  24  |
|  Artifacts -   4  |
|  Relics    -   0  |
 \-----------------/

 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
                                                                         [CM00]
    ___   ___    ___    ___   _____    __  __     _     _  _    ___    ___
   / __| | _ \  / _ \  | __| |_   _|  |  \/  |   /_\   | \| |  / _ \  | _ \
  | (__  |   / | (_) | | _|    | |    | |\/| |  / _ \  | .` | | (_) | |   /
   \___| |_|_\  \___/  |_|     |_|    |_|  |_| /_/ \_\ |_|\_|  \___/  |_|_\
 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|

 ______              _____         _____    __  ___
/_  __/             / ___/______  / _/ /_  /  |/  /__ ____  ___  ____
 / /               / /__/ __/ _ \/ _/ __/ / /|_/ / _ `/ _ \/ _ \/ __/
/_/raining Level - \___/_/  \___/_/ \__/ /_/  /_/\_,_/_//_/\___/_/

 /-----------------\
|  Kills     -   0  |
|  Supplies  -   4  |
|  Artifacts -   8  |
|  Relics    -   0  |
 \-----------------/

(Be sure to enable "Subtitles" from the "Options" menu under the pause menu for
the full experience in Croft Manor.  Some of the books contain clues that will
be in all caps in the subtitles.)

LIVING ROOM

Lara will begin her adventure in the living room of Croft Manor after reading
the note from her butler, Winston, in the beginning cutscene.  Start out by
examining the book in front of Lara (from the other side of the table).

"And even as their hooves shook the earth beneath them, Gilead gathered his
remaining strength and drew back his BOW."
-- The Trials of Gilead, Volume I

This is actually a clue the main puzzle in Croft Manor.  Lara can examine many
of these open books throughout the manor, and read a phrase from them.  After
examining most of them, she will mention "I've already read this one" when
attempting to read it again, but for special books that offer clues such as
this first book, she will always read the book upon examination.

Directly across from the bottom of the staircase, there is a *PRESSURE PLATE*
that will reveal an arrow behind a secret panel in the back of the fireplace
when stepped on.  Find the *CRATE* with red labels in the back of the stack of
crates to the side and pull it over on top of the *PRESSURE PLATE*.  Don't try
to get the arrow yet, or the fire will burn Lara.

-- Checkpoint

Walk back over to the stack of crates and climb to the top of the right set of
crates.  Turn to the left at the very top and jump to grab the top of the big
painting that forms a *LEDGE* and shimmy across it to the left.  Jump to the
left stack of crates then find the item on that side.  Collect the --SCULPTURE
GEAR++ then grab back onto the painting and fall on the tallest set of crates
to land safely.

Run up the main staircase.  Standing in the middle of the stairs and facing the
vase, the first door on the right leads to the Gallery Room, but it is locked
due to the security system, the second door leads to the Music Room, which is
the main goal for this level (it's locked).  The first door on the left leads
to the Library and the second door leads to Lara's Room.

Start by entering the first door on the left.  The hall will take Lara to the
Library.  Along the way Lara can find a few open books as mentioned earlier.

LIBRARY

The door will lock behind Lara as she enters and she cannot get out from this
room.  Find the *RED BOOK* on the middle left bookcase that stands out from the
rest and push it to make the bookcase to the right slide open and reveal a
hidden alcove.  Pick up the --MAZE MAP-- from the hidden alcove.

-- Checkpoint

Run up the stairs to the side.  A silver elephant will be visible in a glass
display at the top - this is actually one of the artifacts for the manor, but
Lara can't retrieve it just yet.  Enter the room on the other side of the
second floor.  Read the middle open book to the right inside of the room for
another clue about the main puzzle in the mansion.

"As he struggled mightily to calm himself, Gilead removed the poison ARROW from
its quiver."
-- The Trials of Gilead, Volume II

Find the two *RED BOOKS* that stick out from the bookcases in the back of the
room and press both of them to make the middle bookcase slide into the wall and
reveal another hidden alcove.  Retrieve the ++DUAL PISTOLS++ from the alcove.

-- Checkpoint

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                              ARTIFACT (1/8)                                 |
|=============================================================================|
| Walk back out of the room and shoot the glass case with the silver elephant |
| then grab the --ARTIFACT (1/8)-- (the elephant).                            |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Find the painting across from the side of the second floor with no railing and
jump to the grab the top portion, the *LEDGE*, at the top.  The painting will
slide down and a button will become visible.  Jump off the painting to land
back on the second floor then quickly shoot the *BUTTON* to make the wall slide
back below and reveal a hidden entrance.

-- Checkpoint

Walk down to the floor below and enter this hidden corridor.

SECRET PASSAGE

Walk through the corridor until a stack of crates appear down the hall ahead.
Look to the left of the stack of crates and pick up the --EMPTY BUCKET-- from
the bottom shelf.  The crates can be destroyed with Lara's guns so shoot them
out of the way or just hop over them and continue down the corridor.  Lara will
reach a closed door at the other end, but press the *BUTTON* on the left wall
to open the door.

-- Checkpoint

GALLERY

This room contains all the relics that Lara has found throughout her
adventures.  If all the relics have been found then they will be displayed in
the surrounding glass cases.  Run up the stairs to the right and enter the room
on the opposite wall.  Examine the book on the far right end to the left.

"The concept of the sundial has existed for thousands of years and is one of
the earliest devices for time measurement.  (Lara) There's some numbers written
on the inside cover.  11, 2, 7.  I wonder what they refer to?"

Shoot the right glass display and pick up the --SUNDIAL GNOMON--.

-- Checkpoint

Leave the room and run back downstairs.  Examine the red *SECURITY LIGHT* on
the door to unlock it.  Walk out into the hall ahead and follow it to the end
to return to the second floor of the Living Room.  Walk across the stairs and
enter the second room on the left.  Follow the hall then open the door at the
end to enter Lara's Room

LARA'S ROOM

On the right side of this room is Lara's dressing room where she can change
into any of her unlocked outfits that she received from finding relics in other
levels.

Turn to the left upon entering the room and pull both sword *SWITCHES* on the
side pedestals to make the gorgon head open to reveal Lara's ++JOURNAL++.  Read
the open book to the right for the final clue to the main manor puzzle.

"And Gilead knew the GEARS of his heart would never turn again as he sacrificed
his one true love to save the kingdom he fought so long to protect."
-- The Trials of Gilead, Volume III

Everything else in Lara's room is optional material (open books) that has
nothing to do with the level, so exit the room and return to the Living Room.

-- Checkpoint

BACK IN THE LIVING ROOM

Walk down the stairs and stand facing away from the stairs at the bottom.  The
first room on the left leads to the Gym, the second room on the left leads to
the Pool Room, and the room up the small staircase to the right (in the back)
leads to the Garden Maze.  Open the door up the small staircase in the back
right and follow the corridor to the end.

GARDEN MAZE

Through the next door, Lara will enter the corridor at the front of the Garden
Maze.  Take the first left in the corridor - Lara can't fix the water system at
the moment further ahead.  Walk up to the Sundial and place the Sundial Gnomon
from earlier on the front of it.  This will activate the Sundial and allow Lara
to move it.

Move the sundial toward the following numbers found in the book from earlier:

--> 11, 2, 7

or

--> XI, II, VII

The dual shock controller will vibrate as the sundial points to each number and
a chime will confirm the correct number.  The gate to the Garden Maze will open
once the sequence is complete.

-- Checkpoint

Enter the Garden Maze.  The camera angle will zoom in to show Lara's Grapple on
the opposite end of the gate up ahead.  Lara needs to venture through the
garden maze in order to make her way to it from one of the other entrances.
There are also three artifacts in the maze - one in the southeast (look for the
target symbol on the map), one in the southwest (plus symbol), and one in the
north (middle block with four surrounding circles).

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                              ARTIFACT (2/8)                                 |
|=============================================================================|
| Turn right at the beginning then follow the trail until a split.  Take the  |
| right path and follow it all the way to an open area with grass in the      |
| middle. Enter the left path and follow it then take the first left followed |
| by the next right.  Pick up the --ARTIFACT (2/8)-- in the corner near the   |
| statue.                                                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                              ARTIFACT (3/8)                                 |
|=============================================================================|
| Turn left at the beginning then turn left when given the option again.      |
| Turn left again then quickly make another left and follow that trail to the |
| end to find this --ARTIFACT (3/8)-- near a plus shaped patch of grass.      |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                              ARTIFACT (4/8)                                 |
|=============================================================================|
| It's more of your choice how you want to get this one since either side is  |
| long.  I'll give directions from the right side since it seems a bit        |
| shorter.                                                                    |
|                                                                             |
| Turn right at the beginning then follow the trail to a split and turn left. |
| Lara will emerge next to a tall statue.  Enter the path along the hedge on  |
| the back right across from Lara.  Take the second right followed by the     |
| first left. Lara will run down a set of zigzagging trails and emerge in an  |
| area with a large patch of grass.  Enter the trail ahead then follow it to  |
| the right.  Take the first left then move straight ahead to find this       |
| --ARTIFACT (4/8)--.                                                         |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Turn right at the beginning then follow the trail to a split and turn left.
Lara will emerge next to a tall statue.  Enter the path along the hedge on the
back right across from Lara.  Take the second right followed by the first left.
Lara will run down a set of zigzagging trails and emerge in an area with a
large patch of grass.  Enter the trail ahead then follow it to the right.  Take
the first left then turn left again quickly.  Follow that path and take the
next left to emerge in the center.

Collect the ++GRAPPLE++ from the railing of the front right fountain.  Look
around the area and find the carvings for the bow and arrow around the middle
statues.  This is what the clues in the books were referring to.  The switch on
the ground in front of the statue cannot be used just yet.  Grapple the gold
*RING* on the gates of the entrance to this area and pull on the gate to pull
it open.

Exit the garden and return to the Living Room.

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                              ARTIFACT (5/8)                                 |
|=============================================================================|
| Since Lara now has the grapple, return to the Library (first door on the    |
| left [second floor]).  Grapple the *RING* hanging from the bottom of the    |
| chandelier and tug on it to make the bookcase to the right open up and      |
| reveal another secret alcove.  Collect the --ARTIFACT (5/8)-- from that     |
| alcove.  Lara can now exit this room from the door in the back.  Return to  |
| the Living Room and go back downstairs.                                     |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Facing the fireplace, open the door on the left and follow the corridor behind
it to the fountain area then enter the gym.

GYM

Now that Lara has her grapple, she can perform most of the task in this area.

Walk up to the blue pad with the number "1" on it.  Jump and grab the *POLE* up
ahead and will swing around and position Lara in front of ledge.  Jump to grab
the *LEDGE* then hop across to the left *LEDGE*.  Leap to the *POLE* behind
Lara and it will turn just like the last.  Swing then jump to the *LEDGE* that
it will face.  Move to the right then hop over to the green *GRIPPERS* on the
right wall and climb them.  Leap to the *LEDGE* of the small walkway across
from the grippers then pull up collect the ++SMALL MEDIPACK++.  Press the
*BUTTON* on the back wall of the alcove to raise four metal columns near the
center of the gym.  Hang off the side of the walkway then drop to get back
down.

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                              ARTIFACT (6/8)                                 |
|=============================================================================|
| Approach the blue pad with the number "2" on it.  Leap to the *CREVICE* on  |
| the wall ahead then hop up to the next *CREVICE* on the wall.  Move to the  |
| left on top crevice.  Jump to the first *PERCHABLE COLUMN* across from      |
| crevice then jump to the next *PERCHABLE COLUN*.  Leap over to the *LEDGE*  |
| on the wall then shimmy over to the left crevice.  Hop up to the overhead   |
| *CREVICE* then move around the corner to the left.  On the far left, jump   |
| and grab onto the *LEDGE* of the alcove behind Lara.  Pull up and grab the  |
| --ARTIFACT (6/8)--.  Hang off the side of the alcove then drop to the       |
| *LEDGE* below and drop again to get down safely.                            |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

Walk over to the blue mat with the number "3" on it.  Many areas can be reached
at key points from this mat.  Jump to the *CREVICE* on the wall ahead then hop
up to the next *CREVICE*

(a) Shimmy to the far left while on the crevice.  Jump and grapple the *RING*
on the wall behind Lara then wall run and leap to the *CREVICE* above the ramp
on the far wall.  Move to the left along the crevice then drop to the small
*LEDGE* below the left side of the crevice.  Jump into the alcove on the right.
Press the *BUTTON* on the wall to make a pole across from alcove turn to face
another way.

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                              ARTIFACT (7/8)                                 |
|=============================================================================|
| (b) Shimmy to the far left while on the crevice.  Jump to the next          |
| *CREVICE* up above the current one.  Jump and grapple the *RING* on the     |
| wall.  When Lara runs to the far side, press toward the *RAMP* across from  |
| the wall and the jump button at the same time to make Lara jump to the      |
| *RAMP*.  Quickly jump to the next *RAMP* across from the first then quickly |
| leap to the *POLE* that was extended from the button that Lara pressed in   |
| step a.  The pole will turn so turn Lara around to face the alcove in the   |
| back of her.  Swing on the pole then leap to the alcove.  Collect the       |
| --ARTIFACT (7/8)-- from the alcove and slide down the ramp to get back to   |
| the floor safely.                                                           |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

(c) Shimmy to the right while on the crevice.  Jump to the next *CREVICE* above
then leap over to the *CREVICE* on the wall across from Lara.  Move to the
right so that Lara moves out to a *LEDGE*.  Jump to the *LEDGE* to the right of
the current one.  Drop to the lower *LEDGE* then shimmy all the way around the
right side of the *CREVICE* to the right.  Jump then grapple the *RING* on the
wall behind Lara.  Wall run then jump to the *CREVICE* above the ramp on the
other side.  Shimmy to the right around the corner and position Lara across
from the pole in the back of her.  Jump to grab the *POLE* and it will rotate
toward an alcove.  Swim then jump to the alcove and pick up the ++LARGE
MEDIPACK++.  Press the *BUTTON* on the wall to rotate another pole near the
number 3 pad.  To get back down safely, jump to the set of green *GRIPPERS* on
the wall to the side then climb to the bottom and drop.

(d) Shimmy to the right while on the crevice.  Jump to the next *CREVICE* above
then leap over to the *CREVICE* on the wall across from Lara.  Move to the
right so that Lara moves out to a *LEDGE*.  Jump to the *LEDGE* to the right of
the current one.  Leap to the *POLE* across from the ledge (behind Lara) then
swing and jump to the next *POLE* (this is the one that rotated earlier).
Swing then jump to the blue *COLUMN* hanging from the ceiling.  Hop over to the
next blue *COLUMN* then leap to the tall *PERCHABLE COLUMN* to the side.  Jump
to the next *PERCHABLE COLUMN* then leap to the metal walkway suspended above
the middle of the gym.  Grab the --WRENCH-- from the other end of the walkway.
To get back down safely spot the green *GRIPPERS* on the wall below the end
where Lara collected the wrench then climb down and drop.

Return to the Living Room.

(It's better if the water is turned on before entering the pool room, so the
pool will be full.)

BACK IN THE MAZE GARDEN

Open the door up the stairs across from the fireplace.  Follow the corridor on
the outside of the Garden Maze until Lara reaches the far end.  Use the Wrench
on the yellow *VALVE* then grab the *WRENCH* and pull it to turn the water back
on throughout the manor.  Walk over to the nearby fountain and use the Empty
Bucket to get a --BUCKET OF WATER--.  Return to the Living Room once again.

BACK IN THE LIVING ROOM

If the crate was positioned on the *PRESSURE PLATE* in the Living Room from
earlier then the panel in the back of the fireplace is already open.  Stand in
front of the fireplace and use the Bucket of Water to put out the fire.  Grab
the --DECORATIVE ARROW-- from the back of the fireplace.

Open the door to the right of the fireplace to reach the Pool Room.  Follow the
corridor and open the next door.

POOL ROOM

Walk through the doorway ahead to enter the Pool Room.  It is under
construction still.  Grab the red *CONTAINER* full of planks and poles and
position it next to the right set of overhead walkways - push it up until the
board on the floor stops it.  Shoot the gold *PIECE* on the chain below the
piece of wood in the back to make the wood piece tilt.

Walk over to the stack of crates in the far right corner and climb on top of
the them.  Leap to the yellow *POLE* next to the tall walkway to the side then
jump and grab the circular *LEDGE* then extends across the second floor
balcony.  Move to the right across the ledge.  On the far right, jump to the
space in between the boards behind Lara, forming a *CREVICE*, then shimmy
across to the middle of it.  Jump to the wooden walkway across from Lara then
pull up.  Look to the left to spot a gold piece hanging from the spear of the
Athena statue.  Jump to *POLE* portion at the bottom of the object and Lara's
weight will eventually make the arms of the statue move downward causing the
spear to form a pole for Lara to swing across.

FINDING THE FIRST ROPE

Return to the *CREVICE* in the boards then shimmy around to the far right side
of that crevice.  Jump to grab the *POLE* portion of the spear then leap across
to the walkway up ahead.  Grab the handle of the small red *CONTAINER* full of
pipes and drag it over to the circular *PRESSURE PLATE* on the right side of
the single statue in the middle.  Notice the X marking on the ground in front
of the statue.  Grab ahold of the circular railing on the side of the statue
and pull it toward the middle X.  Rotate the red *CONTAINER* so that the pole
hits the spear of the statue.  This will make the panel behind the statue
rotate to reveal a hidden button.  Shoot the *BUTTON* with Lara's handguns to
open one of the gates in the pool.

Hop over the debris of the fallen statue and collect the ++LARGE MEDIPACK++
from the other end of the walkway.  Shoot *ROPE 1* on the chain to the side to
loosen the rope holding up the statue in the middle of the pool.  Return to the
other side of the walkway and jump back to the *POLE* followed by the
*CREVICE*.  Shimmy to the middle of the crevice then leap over to the high
wooden walkway that Lara was on before.  Jump to the pole, forming a *PERCHABLE
COLUMN*, extending out of the container that Lara positioned below then leap
over to the other side of the walkway.

FINDING THE SECOND ROPE

Move to the far end of the walkway then jump and grapple the *RING* on the wall
above and wall run then jump to the walkway on the other side.  Push the
*CRATE* on the right down to the floor below - this allows Lara to get back up
here quicker if she falls.  Run over to the walkway on the other side.  Stand
in front of the statue of Atlas then grapple the *RING* on the bottom plate of
the statue then tug on it to make Atlas drop the metal *SPHERE* in his hands.
Move the *SPHERE* over the circular *PRESSURE PLATE* in front of the statue to
open up the second gate in the pool.  Hop over the blocks on the right side and
collect the ++SMALL MEDIPACK++ then shoot *ROPE 2* tied to the chain.

FINDING THE THIRD ROPE

Walk back over to the portion of the wooden walkway where Lara pushed off the
crate just a few minutes ago and jump to the loose plank near that side.  The
plank will tilt, so stay at the first end until it starts to move upward then
quickly run to the opposite end and jump to grab the *LEDGE* at the top of the
wooden planks up along the metal structure ahead.  Move to the right then jump
to grab the next *LEDGE* on the planks across from the far right side - Lara
will turn in the air to grab them. Leap over to the walkway across from the set
of planks and shoot *ROPE 3*.  The statue will fall and shatter into the pool
below.

Fall into the pool below and grab the --DECORATIVE BOW-- from the remains of
the statue.

+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+
|                              ARTIFACT (8/8)                                 |
|=============================================================================|
| Swim into the hole on the side of the pool and follow the tunnel then grab  |
| the --ARTIFACT (8/8)-- from near the end.  If the gates are still sealed    |
| off then one of the objects above was not moved over one of the circular    |
| pressure plates up above.  Pull the *LEVER* on the right wall to open the   |
| gate that leads to the pool in the gym.  The lever cannot be pulled if the  |
| water is not on.  Surface and return to the Living Room.                    |
+-----------------------------------------------------------------------------+

RERETURNING TO THE GARDEN MAZE

Once again, go back to the Garden Maze.  Turn left on the outside corridor to
the to head back into the maze.  Walk through both sets of gates then place the
Decorative Bow on the left hand of the statue and the Decorative Arrow on the
right hand of the statue.  Walk back to the front of the statue and grapple the
*RING* on the panel while facing the statue.  Pull the panel covering off with
the grapple then place the Sculpture Gear inside the set of gears.  Pull the
*LEVER* in front of the statue and watch as the statue shoots the other statue.
The wounded statue will drop an item.  Run over to the statue and grab the
--MUSIC BOX CYLINDER--.

Return to the Living Room.  Run put the stairs and open the second door to the
right.  Follow the hall to the very end.

MUSIC ROOM

Place the Music Box Cylinder on the left panel of the door at the end of hall
to unlock the door.  Open the door to finish all of Croft Manor - the results
will display a few seconds after Lara enters.

Lara can interact with all the musical instruments in the Music Room.  She can
also play any unlocked track from the game over on the record player to the
right.

Total Game Completion = 100% (if all other levels are finished)
 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
                ___   ___  __      __  _     ___   ___    ___
               | _ \ | __| \ \    / / /_\   | _ \ |   \  / __|
               |   / | _|   \ \/\/ / / _ \  |   / | |) | \__ \
               |_|_\ |___|   \_/\_/ /_/ \_\ |_|_\ |___/  |___/           [RE00]
 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|

* Note: For the "Art Galleries" and "Character Bios", a certain amount
(percentage) of artifacts must be collected from the entire area in order to
unlock the reward.  Follow the walkthrough and collect the artifacts in order
and all the artifacts will be unlocked the way I have them listed.

===========
- Special -
===========

-- Note to the Fans

Default

-- Style Units

Find all relics

==============
- Cinematics -
==============

-- The Awakening

Finish all Peru levels

-- Introducing Natla

Finish all Peru levels

-- Vilcabamba

Finish all Peru levels

-- Wolf Attack

Finish all Peru levels

-- The Tomb of Qualopec

Finish all Peru levels

-- Unexpected Company

Finish all Peru levels

-- A Heated Interrogation

Finish all Peru levels

-- Late Night Reconnaissance

Finish all Peru levels

-- Arrival at St. Francis Folly

Finish all Greece levels

-- Business Banter

Finish all Greece levels

-- The Tomb of Tihocan

Finish all Greece levels

-- Pierre's Demise

Finish all Greece levels

-- Shadow Figures 1

Finish all Greece levels

-- Shadow Figures 2

Finish all Greece levels

-- Arrival at Khamoon

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Retrieving the Scion

Finish all Egypt levels

-- The Banishment of Natla

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Ambushed!

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Motorcycle Pursuit

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Island Arrival

Finish all Egypt levels

-- The End of the Line

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Larson Dies

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Kold and Kid

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- The Power of the Scion

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Doppelganger Demise

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- A Tough Choice

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Time to Leave

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Final Confrontation

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Down But Not Out

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Island Escape

Finish all Lost Island levels

=================
- Art Galleries -
=================

-- Origins of Lara Gallery

Collect Level 1 artifacts

-- Box Art Gallery

Collect Level 3 artifacts

-- Peru

Collect Level 4 artifacts

-- Kid

Collect Level 9 artifacts

-- Kold

Collect Level 10 artifacts

-- Egypt

Collect Level 11 artifacts

-- Pierre

Collect Level 5 artifacts

-- Game Gallery

Collect Level 6 artifact

-- Greece

Collect Level 8 artifacts

-- Lost Island

Collect Level 12 artifacts

-- Doppelganger

Collect Level 14 artifacts

-- Natla

Collect Level 14 artifacts

-- Atlantean Creatures

Collect Level 14 artifacts

-- Items and Artifacts

Collect Level 14 artifacts

-- Other Characters

Collect Level 14 artifacts

-- Promotional Materials Gallery

Collect Croft Manor artifacts

-- TR1 vs. TR:A Peru Gallery

Collect Level 3 artifacts

-- TR1 vs. TR:A Greece Gallery

Collect Level 7 artifact

-- TR1 vs. TR:A Egypt Gallery

Collect Level 11 artifacts

-- TR1 vs. TR:A Lost Island Gallery

Collect Level 13 artifact

==================
- Character Bios -
==================

-- Lara Croft

Collect Level 2 artifact

-- Larson

Collect Level 4 artifacts

-- Kid

Collect Level 5 artifacts

-- Kold

Collect Level 6 artifact

-- Pierre

Collect Level 8 artifacts

-- Winston

Collect Level 10 artifacts

-- Natla

Collect Level 11 artifacts

-- Doppelganger

Collect Level 12 artifacts

-- Richard Croft

Collect Level 14 artifacts

===========
- Outfits -
===========

-- Anniversary

Default

-- Legend

Collect Level 1 relic

-- Doppelganger

Collect Level 13 relic

-- Camouflage

Collect Level 9 relic

-- Golden

Collect Level 7 relic (Athenian Owl Figurine)

-- Croft Manor Sport

Collect Level 7 relic (Griffin-Head Protome)

-- Classic

Collect Level 3 relic

-- Wetsuit

Collect Level 12 relic

-- Catsuit

Collect Level 11 relic

-- Scorched Natla

Collect Level 13 relic

==========
- Relics -
==========

-- Killer Whale Bottle

Collect Level 1 relic

-- Kero Mug

Collect Level 3 relic

-- Griffin-Head Protome

Collect Level 7 relic (Griffin-Head Protome)

-- Athenian Owl Figurine

Collect Level 7 relic (Athenian Owl Figurine)

-- Horus Idol

Collect Level 11 relic

-- Mummified Cat

Collect Level 9 relic

-- Torc of Embitterment

Collect Level 13 relic

-- Chalice of Torment

Collect Level 12 relic

=========
- Music -
=========

-- TR: Anniversary - Main Theme

Default

-- Croft Manor - Main Theme

Finish Croft Manor

-- Peru - Bat Theme

Finish all Peru levels

-- Peru - Bear Theme

Finish all Peru levels

-- Peru - Raptor Theme

Finish all Peru levels

-- Peru - Wolf Theme

Finish all Peru levels

-- Peru - Alternate Wolf Theme

Finish all Peru levels

-- Peru - Explorer's Theme

Finish all Peru levels

-- Peru - Waterfall Room

Finish all Peru levels

-- Peru - Main Theme

Finish all Peru levels

-- Peru - T-Rex Theme

Finish all Peru levels

-- Peru - Cinematic Theme 1

Finish all Peru levels

-- Peru - Cinematic Theme 2

Finish all Peru levels

-- Greece - Rat Theme

Finish all Greece levels

-- Greece - Gorilla Theme

Finish all Greece levels

-- Greece - Lion Theme

Finish all Greece levels

-- Greece - Ambience

Finish all Greece levels

-- Greece - Poseidon's Theme

Finish all Greece levels

-- Greece - Fire Room

Finish all Greece levels

-- Greece - Centaur Boss Theme

Finish all Greece levels

-- Greece - Cinematic Mix 1

Finish all Greece levels

-- Greece - Cinematic Mix 2

Finish all Greece levels

-- Egypt - Main Theme

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Egypt - Mummy Theme

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Egypt - Crocodile Theme

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Egypt - Alternate Crocodile Theme

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Egypt - Ambience

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Egypt - Tomb Ambience

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Egypt - Cinematic Mix 1

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Egypt - Cinematic Mix 2

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Lost Island - Main Theme

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Lost Island - Atlantean Creatures

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Lost Island - Ambience

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Lost Island - Great Pyramid Theme

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Lost Island - Torso Boss Theme

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Lost Island - Natla's Theme

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Lost Island - Cinematic Mix 1

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Lost Island - Cinematic Mix 2

Finish all Lost Island levels

===========
- Credits -
===========

Default

================
- Commentaries -
================

* To turn on a commentary, go to the pause menu then select "Options",
"Display", then turn the "Commentary Markers" on.  This will place several
markers throughout each level that Lara can turn on by approaching them and
pressing /\.

-- Croft Manor (Unlocked)

Finish Croft Manor

-- Peru (Unlocked)

Finish all Peru levels

-- Greece (Unlocked)

Finish all Greece levels

-- Egypt (Unlocked)

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Lost Island (Unlocked)

Finish all Lost Island levels

==========
- Cheats -
==========

* The game must be completed fully before any of these cheats can be used.
Finish a time trial early and it will only unlocked once the game has been
completed.  The game will still keep up with the fact that you accomplished the
time trial - just complete it at that point.

-- Golden Shotgun

Finish all Lost Island time trials

-- Silver Mini SMGs

Finish all Lost Island time trials

-- Infinite 50 Caliber Pistol Ammo

Finish all Peru time trials

-- Show Enemy Health

Finish all Peru time trials

-- Infinite Mini SMG Ammo

Finish all Egypt time trials

-- Infinite Health

Finish all Egypt time trials

-- Infinite Shotgun Ammo

Finish all Greece time trials

-- All Weapons

Finish all Greece time trials

-- Textureless Mode

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Infinite Breath

Finish all Lost Island levels

-- Sunglasses

Finish all Lost Island levels

(thanks to Phantom287 on GameFAQs for the time trial unlockables)

================
- Replay Level -
================

-- Croft Manor

Finish Croft Manor

-- Replay Peru

Finish all Peru levels

-- Replay Greece

Finish all Greece levels

-- Replay Egypt

Finish all Egypt levels

-- Replay Lost Island

Finish all Lost Island levels

===============================================================================
                            X-BOX 360 ACHIEVEMENTS
===============================================================================

-- Central Shaft Survivor (Secret Achievement)

Complete the Central Shaft in the Lost Island without dieing.
GS Points: 35

-- Croft Manor (Secret Achievement)

Complete all challenges in the Croft Manor.
GS Points: 20

-- Croft Manor Speed Run

Complete the Croft Manor Time Trial.
GS Points: 30

-- Easy Game

Complete the game on Easy difficulty.
GS Points: 20

-- Egyptian Seals (Secret Achievement)

Collect the seals of Anubis, Horus, Isis, and Osiris without dieing.
GS Points: 35

-- Egyptian Speed Run

Complete all the Egypt Time Trials.
GS Points: 30

-- Egyptian Tomb Raider

Collect all the artifacts and relics in Egypt.
GS Points: 40

-- Gears of Doom! (Secret Achievement)

Complete the Peru gear puzzle without dieing.
GS Points: 30

-- Good Show in Egypt!

Complete all the Egypt Super Actions without fail (first try).
GS Points: 35

-- Good Show in Greece!

Complete all the Greece Super Actions without fail (first try).
GS Points: 35

-- Good Show in Peru!

Complete all the Peru Super Actions without fail (first try).
GS Points: 35

-- Good Show on Lost Island!

Complete all the Lost Island Super Actions without fail (first try).
GS Points: 35

-- Greek Speed Run

Complete all the Greece Time Trials.
GS Points: 30

-- Greek Tomb Raider

Collect all the artifacts and relics in Greece.
GS Points: 40

-- Hard Game

Complete the game on Hard difficulty (includes Easy and Medium Game
achievements).
GS Points: 45

-- IRON Raider in Egypt

Complete Egypt without dying.
GS Points: 40

-- IRON Raider in Greece

Complete Greece without dying.
GS Points: 35

-- IRON Raider in Peru

Complete Peru without dying.
GS Points: 35

-- IRON Raider on Lost Island

Complete Lost Island without dying.
GS Points: 40

-- Lightening Never Strikes Twice (Secret Achievement)

Complete the Hephaestus room in Greece without being struck by lightning.
GS Points: 30

-- Lost Island Speed Run

Complete all the Lost Island Time Trials.
GS Points: 30

-- Lost Island Tomb Raider

Collect all the artifacts and relics in Lost Island.
GS Points: 40

-- Medium Game

Complete the game on Medium difficulty (includes Easy Game achievement).
GS Points: 25

-- Peruvian Speed Run

Complete all the Peru Time Trials.
GS Points: 30

-- Peruvian Tomb Raider

Collect all the artifacts and relics in Peru.
GS Points: 40

-- Slayer I

Defeat the T-Rex without dying (Peru).
GS Points: 30

-- Slayer II

Defeat the Twin Centaur Bosses without dying (Greece).
GS Points: 30

-- Slayer III

Defeat the Torso Boss without dying (Lost Island).
GS Points: 30

-- Slayer IV

Defeat Natla without dying (Lost Island).
GS Points: 40

-- Weapon Master I

Collect the Magnum weapon.
GS Points: 10

-- Weapon Master II

Collect the Uzi weapon.
GS Points: 10

-- Weapon Master III

Collect the Shotgun weapon.
GS Points: 10

 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|
      ___  __   __  ___   ___  __   __  _____   _  _   ___   _  _    ___
     | __| \ \ / / | __| | _ \ \ \ / / |_   _| | || | |_ _| | \| |  / __|
     | _|   \ V /  | _|  |   /  \ V /    | |   | __ |  | |  | .` | | (_ |
     |___|   \_/   |___| |_|_\   |_|     |_|   |_||_| |___| |_|\_|  \___|
                           ___   _      ___   ___
                          | __| | |    / __| | __|
                          | _|  | |__  \__ \ | _|
                          |___| |____| |___/ |___|                       [EE00]
 _____________________________________________________________________________
|_____________________________________________________________________________|

-- Copyright

This document Copyright 2007 Kevin Hall (Berserker)

Lara Croft Tomb Raider: Anniversary Copyright 2007 Eidos Interactive Ltd.

This document is for private and personal use only.  Do not try to sell this
document for profit.  This is a free document and should remain free.  Do not
try to reproduce this document in any way, shape, or form.  Do not alter this
FAQ in any way.  Use of this guide on any other web site, besides the sites
that have contacted me, or as a part of any public display is strictly
prohibited, and a violation of copyright.

If you want to use this FAQ on your site, then contact me for permission first.

This FAQ can only be found on a few sites as of now and I am keeping a list of
those sites.  Contact me if you want to use it.

-- Special Thanks

- my parents.

- Ceej from GameFAQs, Stephen from IGN FAQs, Chris and Peter from Cheat
  Happens, Dennis from Supercheats, and the neoseeker FAQ staff for always
  accepting my guides.

- http://network-science.de/ascii/ for the ASCII art.

-- Version History

Version 1.0 - (July 2, 2007) - Walkthrough is complete!  I decided to spend all
of yesterday on Croft Manor even though I was thinking about adding it later
next week.  The guide needs some proofreading which I'll get to at a later
date.

Version 1.0 - (July 3, 2007) - Added my recently started blog address since I
forgot to put it in here in the first version.  Check the "About Me" section.
I'll be adding some more room/area names on the next update so readers won't
have to read through so many paragraphs in the walkthrough section.

Version 1.1 - (August 13, 2007) - Added a note about a bug in the St. Francis
Folly area - the Damocles Room.  Also added a note about how to turn the
commentaries on and some more info about the cheats in the reward section.

Version 1.2 - (October 3, 2007) - Added some information on the quick turn
while swinging on poles.  Information was added at the top portion under
"Poles" and on the Fourth Floor of The Great Pyramid stage.

Version 1.2 - (November 26, 2007) - Corrected a few minor typos.  I might add
some more info to this guide before the end of the year since more version of
TR:A have been released - I'm noticing that it really needs a weapons section
with locations for each, not to mention a good proofreading.

Version 1.3 - (December 29, 2007) - The Xbox 360 achievements for the game were
added at the bottom of the Rewards section and I added an extra note under the
Centaur battle since I receive quite a few emails about grappling their
shields.

Version 1.3 - (January 7, 2008) - Changed a bit of wording here and there
thanks to some feedback from a reader - mainly dealing with the adrenaline
dodge.  Just a little note, if anyone ever finds the wording in a particular
area a little off then please email me and point out the particular area of the
walkthrough where it is located.

-- Contact Info

I can be reached at my email address, which is > berserker_kev @ yahoo.com <,
so please contact me if you have any questions, comments, etc.  I don't mind
receiving emails at all.  All I ask is for you to try to make the email decent.
I realize that some people do not speak perfect English or cannot type that
well, so that doesn't really matter to me, but all that I ask is that you try
to make it readable.  If you found this walkthrough helpful, an email would be
most appreciated.

I would prefer you not to add me to your messenger, but if you do, at least
tell me a bit about yourself and why, or if I know you, tell me who you are.
One of my pet peeves is when people just add me to their messenger without
saying anything.  I usually just deny their request.

-- About Me

Well, my name is Kevin.  I'm 27 years old (as of March 2007) and reside in the
US (Mississippi).  I've been an avid player of video games ever since I first
got an Atari 2600 back when I was 6 years old.  I've tried to escape into many
other hobbies but always wind up back to square one with video games.  My
favorite gaming series is Resident Evil by far, then second would be
Castlevania.  Playing just about any survival horror is a major high point in
my gaming experience.

A few of my other interests include horror movies, anime, and I'm a complete
message board junkie.  You can find me at Artic Nightfall (Berserker) or the
Resident Evil or Castlevania IGN message boards (berserker_kev) from time to
time.  I'm also a big fan of viewing artwork, though I can't draw myself.  Even
though I can't draw, I try to be a creative person through writing, and
hopefully that reflects in my guides.  My dream is to be a professional
walkthrough writer, but until then I will continue to publish guides for free
on GameFAQs and the various other gaming sites.

For any other info about me, please see my FAQ Writer of the Month interview at
IGN:

http://faqs.ign.com/articles/637/637797p1.html

-- Berserker's blog.

My own site with game reviews, discussions of my guides (some), and random
thoughts about video games.  Feel free to post up some comments on the blog.  I
don't bite... well not that much... and not too viciously...

http://berserkersblog.blogspot.com/

-- My other work can be found at both IGN and GameFAQs.

http://users.ign.com/about/berserker_kev (IGN)

http://www.gamefaqs.com/features/recognition/21400.html (GameFAQs)
